# nrealus' AI Planning Research Repository

A long-term personal research project in AI planning and acting.

Its main interest in uncertainty handling in an integrated planning and acting framework. For now, the main focus is in temporal uncertainty. Non-temporal uncertainty will (hopefully) be focused on later as well.

The idea pursued by this project mainly follows Arthur Bit-Monnot's works.
As such, the current short-term goal is to replicate a basic/simplified version of his [Aries](https://github.com/plaans/aries) solver (in Python). This can be seen as a mini-project of its own, with the goal of understanding a non-trivial, hybrid CP/SAT solver. The mid-term goal is to integrate ideas on planning and scheduling with uncertainty into the replicated "Aries-like" solver. Notably, the current most promising idea lies in the PhD thesis of Andrew Wang, on risk-bounded dynamic scheduling of probabilistic temporal networks (PSTN). Roughly speaking, the idea would be to "plug" his 3-layer solver with our "Aries-like" solver. However, there will almost certainly be a need to deal with multiple chance constraints, based on the corresponding insights from chapter 8 of Wang's thesis. Indeed, our long-term aim is still in integrated planning and acting, not just scheduling. As such, probabilistic / uncertain extensions to the hierarchical chronicle framework of Bit-Monnot / Godet, would almost certainly imply multiple chance constraints possibilities in the addressed problems. Finally, the ideas for integrated planning and acting are also mainly based on Bit-Monnot / Turi's works (the SOMPAS actor). However, our interest in uncertainty, notably temporal uncertainty, means that we will have to consider problems related to plan dispatching, and plan repair/replanning ("revision approaches" category in Bidot 2009). Most notably, if we plan to have probabilistic uncertainty capabilities, the problem of optimal plan dispatching arises. To address it, the current main inspirations are the works of Michael St-Guillain (Lila) and Kevin Osanlou (Restricted Time-based Dynamic Controllability strategies). Finally, in the (very) long run, a Goal Reasoning layer could be integrated on top of the whole planning and acting system. The main inspiration on this aspect are the works of Kondrakunta (Goal Operations).

[More detailed notes and roadmap will eventually come.]

mkdocs documentation link:https://nrealus.github.io/ai-planning-research-repo/
